Life! It’s stupidity, no?
That’s why. You say,
“Oh stupidity, Mr. Ego is coming back.
Now I’m not going to fall a prey to it”.
It will go away.
If you make fun of it, it will go away.
Hanuman has helped, I must say.
He is the killer of ego.
Ah. You see? He plays all monkey’s
tricks to kill your ego.
You know Ravana, burnt his tail.
So he burnt the whole Lanka,
and Ravana didn’t know what to do.
So at least, thanks God, with Sahaja
Yoga, everyone starts seeing it, I think.
Otherwise, how can you?
Because it’s a very subtle
ego pampering stuff, you see.
That’s why people don’t want
to leave it, you see.
Shri Ma, I’ve wondered if you need
this slogan at all.
This slogan for Sahaja Yoga.
I’m not this up, but I don’t know
what do you think to it.
Before Realization, the 3 acceptances
would be: the Holiness Shri Mataji,
accept the experience
and accept your Self.
It would be the three acceptances.
Baba, you are just hitting
everybody’s ego by that.
Before Realization, nobody will come,
as it is, nobody is coming.
If you say, ‘accept Shri Mataji’
that’s the reason they won’t accept.
After Realization, the three ‘Vs’
have become veneration.
Hum?
Veneration, Vibration, Ventilation.
This is good.
Remember the three ‘Vs’
then Victory is ours. Jai Mataji.
That one was very good.
But the first one, if you say it
before Realization,
nothing before Realization.
Everything after Realization.
Yes, just after Realization.
So, if you remember the three ‘Vs’,
Veneration, Vibration, Ventilation.
Hum. That’s very good.
Is it?
You write this.
You send this to the magazine.
Yes, I did send it to India, actually.
I didn’t hear any more about it.
Hum?
I did send it to India but I didn’t say
to put it in magazine.
But when I wrote back to mister Lal—
no, no, it was when I wrote to the…
asked about the magazine.
Because I asked to have it
sent direct to me from Delhi.
Because I wanted to get
some of the back numbers.
And I wrote it just then.
And that was it.
I didn’t hear any more about it.
Now send him, with my signature.
Yes, Shri Mataji.
May God bless you.
Actually, Gavin was so bright.
I just sent something, and this C.K.
Sharma made a big mess out of the whole thing.
So Gavin was so angry. He said,
“Mother, I’m not going to write
anything now, whatever”.
I said, “But doesn’t matter.
Now let’s see it again”.
I said, “He just changed the whole thing,
made such a mess”.
He doesn’t understand English even.
He was very angry.
But I said, “Now you forgive him.
That’s it”.
But ultimately, that Sharma
turned out to be such a fool, you see.
Did you read the letter sent to Sharma?
No, I didn’t, Mother.
Did you shoot?
Yes.
That would have been better.
If you had read the,
you would have been happy.
I read the letter that came round,
because I received a copy of that letter.
Hum?
I received a copy of that letter,
but I only just started to read it.
Gavin had done a very good job on that.
One by one.
Yes. I did write that part of the letter
that you asked me to write through Gavin.
Now, that’s all right.
But this one is another one,
which CP has given him.
A thing that, you know, when a person
starts going down,
it starts ruining the person.
You can see the effects of that everywhere.
Everyone starts talking about it.
Absolutely. And the whole thing
comes to a boiling point.
About everyone. It happens like that.
When one person gets down.
Yes. Whatever is the situation, you see.
Because Sahaja Yogis start seeing it,
then the communication starts.
Because, you see, whatever is
a Brahmin is a Brahmin.
It’s just, whatever is gold is gold.
And if something goes wrong with it,
then you know what.
And when somebody gets sick like that,
you start seeing, talking about it.
About this Sharma, I guess, just imagine,
before he broke out,
here the people were fed up,
because whatever they wrote –
you wrote something, isn’t it?
Yes, Hester and I wrote something about it.
But it came out, indubitably.
So, this is what they told Me.
Oh.
And I’m very unhappy about it. I said,
“They should have ought to sue us”.
The way they were. Then, I went to India,
there was a discussion about,
“Why he’s charging so much
to London Sahaja Yogis?”
I said, “Not that’s so much
and this and that”.
Then, these people in Delhi also said,
“He’s taking lot of these advertisements.
What is he doing about the money?
We have not seen the accounts or anything”.
All this was brewing up, you see.
But I said, “Let it be.
It doesn’t matter. He has no job.
Doesn’t matter. Doesn’t matter,
if you work it out, I don’t know, sort of “.
I gave him a little hint that,
“You be careful about.
Now you don’t spend here and there.
And I’m also in New York. All right, sir?”
You see, these things start talking,
whatever is nonsensical secret,
start bringing up in the collective being.
Because it comes as a
foreign matter in the body.
And everybody feels,
everybody starts talking on it.
I saw it with Marcus, also.
Everybody starts feeding ego, everywhere.
In this side, that side, that.
And the explosion came when there was
nobody I had taken back.
I allow you to do it.
Because if I say that,
“Love would be like this,
it will become a religion”.
So let the whole thing boil up.
And then let the person see.
Same with Christoph.
I mean, so many people told me
about Christoph.
I talked to him also in a way
that he should understand.
But there’s no love.
I don’t understand what is hot,
cold food, everything. Just I’ll have.
It blows up. It’s like the body, you know.
In the body there’s a sickness,
when you start feeling it,
reporting starts coming.
It’s like a sickness, you see.
And it works out that way.
I’m just saying how things work out.
Like this Ike Sharma. You see,
in the beginning, he was nice.
I mean, he’s a nice man.
Otherwise, nothing wrong.
But he didn’t ever got Realization also,
of all the things.
And like a sickness, you know,
in the collective being it comes in,
somebody like that.
Don’t sit in the thing. It’s still draft.
Why don’t you close it?
And then, when I went to Delhi,
everybody, it’s here only.
First of all these people wrote something,
David wrote something,
Gavin wrote something.
But Hester told Me about your writing, that,
“Something nonsensical has come up”.
Then Gavin told Me,
“I’m not going to write.
anything on you.
Then I wrote it down.
I showed it to you. I sent it there.
And you still entirely thought
of something nonsensical.
I’m very angry”.
So I said, “All right, doesn’t matter.
We’ll talk to him”.
Then the question came up,
“Why is he charging so much to us, money?”
Why shouldn’t he charge
the same as he’s charging there?
And only posting he can take from us”.
Then in Delhi also they told Me—
I mean, everybody was telling
something like that.
In Delhi they said,
“He’s taking so much money
for advertisements”
and “You must say something Mother to him.
He’s taking quite a lot of money
for advertisements
and he’s not showing any accounts properly.
So he must take proper accounts”.
I still allowed it to you.
I talked to him. You see, I told him.
I told him that there’s
something going wrong with you.
Everybody is feeling it.
You’d better do some justice to yourself.
Instead of understanding, he went on.
And now he is out of circuits.
Not only, but he’s funny.
It always happens like that.
With Rustom, also, same thing happened.
When he came, everybody told Me that,
“He’s like this”.
And the people whom he liked
were all nonsensical people.
Like one of them was
the person from America.
I told him, “Why are you
keeping him there, free? Why?”
“He’s all right, Mother.
He’s quite good”.
Because he used to pamper his ego, you see.
I said, “No, he’s troublesome.
He’s got very bad relations”.
He had a fight with David Baxter.
He had and that thing.
He told David Baxter that,
“I’m an incarnation of primordial…”.
He came and told”.
He said, “Is it true?”
I said, “I’ll ask him”.
“Is it true, Mother?”
I said, “No, it is not.
But I’ll ask him why did he say so”.
Like that, you know, so many cases.
And then he said, “I’m in charge here”.
But the worst I’ve heard was that
he changed the mantras.
Like I say, “Aham Sakshat”.
He used to say “Aham Sakshat”.
This was the best part of it.
Can you imagine?
And how he dominated people, ‘bapre’!
He dominated.
Then he started learning the mantras.
He thought that by learning mantras,
he’ll be able to overpower him.
So he learnt all the mantras.
Rajesh started doing the same.
I got such a fright.
I told him, “Don’t learn mantras”.
It’s a very tricky ground you are walking in.
It’s a very tricky ground.
So one has to be careful.
You can destroy yourself completely,
though you are saints.
I mean, definitely, Rustom is
a very great saint, you see.
But like a fool he just—
you see, this is the last—
temptation, is the word.
These are all temptations in life.
Ego. Others temptations are there,
like sex, this, that.
In India, the main temptation
is not so much sex,
because they are, from childhood, you see,
we have a...
But the main is money. The embezzlement.
Embezzlement, this is nowadays,
of large amounts.
Like this Mr. Lal. He embezzled
a lot of money.
So, I had to donate some money.
I wanted to donate out of
my personal money, some...
So, I took out twenty-one thousand
rupees from my account.
I mean, cash I brought it out from the bank.
But I said, “Look, instead of Me
donating all that,
I’ll ask, you see, some Sahaja Yogis
who cannot pay, to donate”.
So, I gave them one thousand and one,
thousand and one, to several people.
I asked them to donate.
No, seventeen thousand, sorry,
not twenty-one thousand, seventeen thousand.
And five thousand, I donated
in the name of my account.
I have given seventeen thousand.
So twenty-two thousand, it becomes, isn’t it?
Seventeen thousand, twenty-two thousand.
And then, I gave—because it was
from the bank.
So, you see, bank is such a simple thing,
isn’t it, to take out the money,
give money to people to donate,
to fourteen people I gave money.
All right, first of all, to see.
And I asked them to put money
in the bank pockets.
I’ll give it to them.
I think I should get it, I guess.
In the presence.
It is recorded.
So how did you sleep last night?
I slept very well.
Very well. You got it very well.
How are you?
I’m fine, Shri Mataji.
You didn’t come yesterday.
Sorry, no, I didn’t come.
No, you were not.
What’s your name?
Did you go to TM or something?
Yes. But not for very long.
I haven’t been for months.
Not much. No.
You too didn’t go much, isn’t it?
Did you, yourself?
Yes.
How many years?
Well, I did it for about three years.
Three years.
But I didn’t do the studies.
I didn’t do the...
Did you also go to TM?
Really? How many years?
Only, one year.
How many?
One year. One year.
I went to see some person who is holy,
and I told them the mantra,
and I had prayers said over me,
because I don’t like what was happening
to me when I was meditating.
What was happening?
Little louder you tell Me.
Strange pictures in front of me
seemed to be drawing towards…
Really?
Yes.
Experience should be something
like LSD style, should be,
the way their style is, you see.
They are putting you on to the,
what we call the supraconscious,
the right-hand side.
So people, sort of who take LSD also,
you see, have the same kind of experiences.
And if they see Me also, in the beginning,
some of the people who have taken LSD,
they just see light, nothing,
they can’t see Me.
Most surprising, isn’t it?
Because even in the other platforms,
I have seen some people
suddenly getting stunned, you see,
looking at Me like this.
And you can’t understand,
it goes on the eyes.
And TM people get sometimes
that kind of experience.
Yes.
About Me also.
It’s very tricky, very tricky, you see,
because you think
something unknown is happening,
one starts believing them, you see.
Because you don’t know
from where it is coming, what it is.
You don’t know really, I mean,
you don’t know where you stand
with everything, isn’t it?
So you just go on like
a under blanket movement.
You just go on and on and on.
Like Marcus did.
He was with them for twelve years
and he said,
“Mother, I did it very ardently
with complete faith.
And I just said that, ‘This is the way,
and I must find out,
must be something wrong with me
that I’m not achieving’ “.
And they said,
“We didn’t know where we were going”
Until they develop epilepsy.
Epilepsy.
Most of them end up with epilepsy.
I haven’t got epilepsy, I’m fine.
But they used to faint on the street.
In India, it’s very common.
But the trouble is, you see,
they it in secrecy.
So the—to find out whether it is due
to the same is very difficult.
Once you get into epilepsy,
you go into mental hospital, all right?
So you go into mental hospital,
another person goes into
the mental hospital.
But you don’t know there’s
a relationship existing
because it’s a secret.
By the time you discover,
you’re already in it.
Yes.
Three of them got epilepsy in crossway,
three of them, very seriously.
And that’s how they started to discover it.
Though he has earned sufficient money now,
he’s not interested.
He’s got sufficient money to live
and get there and he’s not interested much.
There was another girl who came
to see Me in London.
I mean, she’s in a daze, completely.
She’s… I mean, she’s really dreaming.
And she doesn’t know
what she’s talking about,
and very incoherent,
just like a mad person.
And I believe she is of a very rich family
and most of her money has been donated.
I have pity her.
I think he’s the dragon
describing the Bible.
It’s so simple.
Why? Your money.
While Indians are—as, you see,
you people are more sort of
sex-oriented and things like that,
more emotional type,
but Indian people are more money-minded.
They want money.
They want more money
and more money and more money.
They say that to get more people,
they need the money to attract the people.
I beg your pardon?
They say that they need the money
to attract more people.
For what he uses that?
Sorry?
He uses the money himself.
You see, you must have
some explanation, isn’t it?
Because whatever one does,
this is one of the explanations,
but he uses the money himself.
He has a bed full of diamonds.
This is all your money.
If you attract people through money,
such people are useless for any good work.
Don’t you think so?
Please, speak very slowly.
What is it?
She questioned why they ask for money,
if there was truth.
Yes, that’s it! It’s a simple thing.
You do not sell truth in the market,
do you know?
To attract people, you must have truth.
What’s the use of attraction of people?
I mean, ultimately
what have you got to be?
That’s the point, isn’t it?
Attract for what?
Have you heard of Mentmore?
Hum?
Oh, I’ve heard of all of the.
No, but they bought it.
And some people go down for six months
and they just do advanced programs.
But they’re very good.
They do it in a very…
What program have they done? Nothing.
What more can they do? Nothing.
But they think they’re doing good.
You see, because they’re mesmerized,
because, you see, this is ego satisfaction,
you see, that, “We are paying for it”.
That’s the human nature.
If you pay for something,
say, you go to a psychologist,
but you are paying for the one
who sits down there.
And you have to justify it somehow,
that, why are you there, you see?
They’ve done no good. They cannot do.
Because one thing you must find out,
as I said yesterday,
what powers have you got of your own?
Do you know where you are,
whether it is good or bad?
Only, because you feel happy.
I mean, as I said to you yesterday,
you can feel happy in a pub,
but is it doing good to you? No.
You may feel happy with the smoke, you see.
But is it good for you? It is not.
You see, happiness is not
the thing that determines it.
Mostly happiness is a quality of ego
that just makes you feel very happy.
It’s not joy.
I mean, it’s so absurd, you can’t imagine.
There was a fellow who was doing this.
What was the friend of yours who died
while doing these siddhis?
His name was...
He was doing TM with siddhis.
Yes. Yes.
And he was doing ‘siddhis’ and he was,
you see, trying to fly mostly.
He was doing siddhis even when he died,
he collapsed with that.
And he died.
Still the wife says,
“It’s nice, now he’ll go to heaven”.
Now what to do to such fools?
It’s foolish. It’s stupid.
You know, ten years later,
people will be laughing at you.
Your children will be laughing at you,
“Our parents were trying to fly”. Why?
What is the wisdom?
Instead of seeking your Spirit,
why should you seek this thing?
These are ‘paroksha’, it means outside.
Whatever you see, whatever you hear,
is all knowledge outside, not inside. Yes?
Yes.
But what you know is, inside is,
that you know this is hot, this is cold,
this is subjective knowledge.
Yes. Last night I read photocopies
of a piece of writing
that Dara had from your meeting,
and it said that, “If you do TM,
it’s past lives you’re encountering.
You’ll start a regressing”.
A regressing.
Yes, you encounter these past lives.
No, if you do TM, you see, what happens,
you go to the supraconscious area.
Then, supraconscious area is an area
where all the ambitious people have died,
living there.
Like Hitler is there.
I mean, I’ve put the last on that,
is Hitler.
He is living there.
So these spirits, they overpower you.
You become over-ambitious,
you start being too much of work,
you start becoming speedy.
TM people become very speedy,
and the whole thing starts
a process of too much thinking.
For the time being, you may be here.
But then, just like speeding up, you see,
and then, just you go down.
All your nerves are broken,
because of the spirit that possesses you.
Growth is only possible if you grow,
not through parasites. Isn’t it?
You have to grow yourself.
Now what is the way of growth?
In nature, you have to germinate.
Unless and until there is germination,
you cannot grow. There is no growth in it.
There’s no growth of awareness.
Whatever you were, you are today,
just the same.
On the contrary, you are worse now.
You see my point? This is...
You should see that,
how to tell them about it.
It’s the growth.
It’s a living thing
that should happen to you.
And these experiences are dead experiences,
have no meaning as we
do not relate to them.
You just see, they are away from you.
You don’t know how to manoeuvre them,
how to get them.
They are just there.
I mean, you can get it with even LSD,
the same experiences.
For example, you start seeing an eye,
you start seeing all kinds of things
and all that.
But it’s a hallucination.
What can you do about it? Nothing.
You cannot manoeuvre it.
Like seeing a TV.
When you can’t do anything about the TV
program when you are watching it. Can you?
Yes. Turn it off.
Turn off. That’s all!
That’s the only thing you can do.
I never had any experiences like that.
You didn’t get.
I just felt relaxed.
And just, then I started to think
that I wasn’t worried enough,
I wasn’t close enough to dare inside.
But I didn’t feel unpleasant
or I didn’t feel…
No, see now, even the,
how you feel relaxed about it.
It took away the nervous tummy
that I used to have.
Hum?
I used to have a nervous stomach
and it went away with TM.
That’s the – are you seeking only that?
Well, that was all I was.
I just thought it was a relaxation method.
No, you should not think of relaxation.
You should not think of these cheap things.
Anybody can take away your tummy;
little exercise can take away.
You know what was happening really?
It was somebody who took over
from you the responsibility.
You felt relaxed, but you are speeded.
By speed you lost that.
You can become very thin doing TM,
because you are working under pressure.
Somebody else is riding.
You see...
Hum?
I was doing TM.
I was very, very thin with TM.
What did she say?
I became very thin when I was doing TM.
Yes, you will, naturally,
because you are riding a double horse,
you see.
It’s a, it’s somebody else, you see,
who makes you run.
That’s one thing happens to you,
you become very, very thin. Very thin.
I mean, you become exhausted.
And you become extremely speedy.
Thought, you cannot stop.
Think like man.
Yes, that’s true.
Huh?
That’s very true.
Isn’t it? This is it. See for yourself.
I have seen TM people like,
when they came first to Me,
they were so speedy.
They were talking like telescopically,
you see:
the words were going from one to another.
I just couldn’t follow them,
because they were so speedy.
With such a speed,
tremendous speed they were talking.
The whole thing was so speedy
and the thoughts were coming to them
just like bombardment.
It was—those who have done
quite a lot of it, like David, Ian.
Ian, what was his surname?
Sridhar.
All of them, how they were talking.
I just didn’t understand.
I said, “Slow down, slow down, slow down”.
I couldn’t understand what they were talking.
Loudly, and with a great speed.
Every one of you were like that.
Even Hester, you, even, Peter is still
a little bit, of course,
sometimes like that.
The worse was Linda.
So many of them came to Sahaja Yoga.
And they went into such tantrums,
you can’t imagine.
Did you tell them what happened?
You should tell them.
One fellow jumped twenty feet.
Just taking my name,
he jumped twenty feet with fear, you know.
And this fellow, Mr. David Plough,
he was going into contortions
only on the phone.
I didn’t talk.
One of the disciples of, a Sahaja Yogi
talked to him on the phone,
and he was going into contortions.
And tremendous heat came out of his body.
And when the Sahaja Yogi said,
“Are you getting tremendous heat?”
He said, “How do you know?”
He said, “I can feel it here on my hand”.
He was very speedy also.
These are very subtle happenings
which take place within us.
Till you reach to that explosive stage,
where you just can’t control anymore,
then it coils on you
and then you start thinking.
By that time you are lost.
But as I said yesterday,
the turnover is good.
Many people come, then they go away.
But this has happened to these people
because they were very tenacious.
They had all these problems,
till they continued.
And then they were completely
flat out, finished.
All money was lost. They were paupers.
Their children were on the street.
They had nothing to eat.
They sold out their big houses.
Everything happened.
It is all prophesied
that all such false gurus will come.
It’s all prophesied.
And the first sign is that a person
who lives on your money is a parasite.
Now supposing I tell you,
“Come and stay in my house with Me”.
Will you live? No.
You won’t accept such an invitation
to live with Me freely,
because you have a self-respect.
But these people have no source of income
except that what you give them.
And they live like lords.
They are not yogis by any chance.
Mahesh Yogi has also
a very great weakness for women.
He has given pregnancy to women.
And at least seven women have told Me.
She knows also.
He used to call them in the night
and have relations with women,
about ten years back.
He was Purudeva.
Hum?
He was Purudeva. Like Mahesh Yogi.
This one was here also.
Purudev is not a spiritual guru.
Hum?
Not a spiritual guru.
I mean, he was not as sinister
as this fellow.
But he was not a good man, neither.
He died of cancer, Mother.
Yes, yes, his guru.
I’ve read one or two books about him.
And I could see that
he was not a Realized soul.
He may not be such a sinister fellow
in this way as I don’t know much
about his life,
but I read his, these things.
They play all kinds of tricks.
Like he was, he said he was
the Shankar acharya.
But then refused to be Shankar acharya.
I mean, Shankar acharyas
are equally the same thugs.
Just like being a pope here.
Shankar acharyas,
they are not Realized souls, no, no.
Just like your Archbishop of Canterbury.
So even if he was a Shankaracharya
or anything,
what difference does it make
in the realm of God?
They are all thugs. All unauthorized.
Just like a cardinal you have,
he was one of them.
And then he left it
and he joined these and all sorts of stories.
And one of the Shankar acharyas
is now making a big umbrella of gold.
And he wants to put diamonds,
to put on his head.
That umbrella should fall on him nicely.
Of tons weight, one ton weight.
Can you imagine?
Who is going to lift
that umbrella on the head?
All these ideas come up.
That’s what it is.
You see, falsehood shows itself
by all these things.
First, they try to hide it,
but then they either come out as violence,
or as possessions like Mentmore
or something like that.
I mean, these people could not see it,
till late, till so late,
how he was pampering their ego.
They were appointed as ministers,
and they had chairs, you see,
gilded with gold. Joke!
And then, they were carried
with the cars, you see.
Rolls Royce or what?
Jaguars.
And the car was carried behind them.
And the ego was so pampered that
they were supposed to wear lined dresses,
you see, lined these,
what you call them, these official blue
or black suits, you see,
with ties and things like that, all of them.
How can you have a course in Divine love?
How can you? Can you have a course?
Can you give a course to a flower
to become a fruit?
I mean, I just think of a course business,
you see, I’ve said.
My grandchildren are Realised, you see,
four of them are.
The youngest one, one brought some paper
from the school
and she said, “What’s written in this book?”
She’s about three or three years.
She was going to a kindergarten school year
and I see she brought it.
So she said, “What is in this, Grandmother?”
So I said, ” It’s written here that
if you can give hundred rupees
and if you go to a particular hotel,
you will get your transformation.
And you will get peace and all that”.
So the elder one said,
“It means Kundalini awakening, isn’t it?
Otherwise how can you get transformation?
You cannot transform”.
She said, “It means that”.
So she said,
“How can you have a course for that, Nani?”
The name ‘Nani’ is Grandmother,
“How can you have a course for that?”
The elder one said.
So she said, “They are mad people”.
“They must be mad to say
there can be a course for this”.
The little one of three years old.
So the elder one says,
“My father has done already fourteen courses
and his Kundalini has not risen”.
If by doing courses,
if the Kundalini rises—
So the girl said, “They are mad,
they are mad “, and she tore off the paper.
You cannot do a course. You see, why?
It appeals to you people because
theological college you have got here.
That’s why.
You think if you can be trained in theology,
you can be trained in this way,
so you think, “We should do a course”.
You see, this is the background.
That’s the reason.
Otherwise, normally,
nobody would accept such a thing.
So, what sort of...
Hum?
Apart from the money he has got,
I mean, what’s, what will become of him,
eventually?
Then why don’t you just think of it,
figure out what should become
of such a person.
Tell me, what should be
the punishment of such a man?
Where will he be? Leave alone money.
You see, I don’t mind money.
Let it be, there are thugs
and thugs and thugs.
But to begin with, he was a thief.
To begin with he was a thief.
He run away, as he steeled something,
into forest.
There he met somebody
who told him all these mesmerisms.
He came out of it after fourteen years
and he started this.
But doesn’t matter.
Even if he’s a thief, all right,
he can go to jail and finish with it.
But what he’s doing is
to spoil your inner being.
This is the greatest sin.
The greatest sin is to spoil
your inner being.
But why does he want to do that one?
Because he’s a devil,
because he is a satanic person.
You see, they let loose all satanic forces.
It’s the work of a...
They’re all let loose,
getting loose these things.
You see, why there is so much
criminality these days in the world?
These people have brought
these horrible forces
and anybody who catches them
can be affected.
Why am I doing this?
Because I want to do God’s work.
Why are they doing it?
Because they are going to do Satan’s work.
It’s just the same.
Plus, doing that, they can earn money,
they can have all the ‘fun of life’,
have lots of women around, everything,
so why not do it?
And they do not exhaust at all,
as I exhaust Myself.
They do not. They just settle down.
Nobody can even meet them
and talk to them.
Very few people have seen his face.
But he gets such dedicated workers,
you see, just under his control.
You saw all the things of mesmerism.
All the satanic forces act together
and work out.
For example, when he was
delivering lectures, he,
when he was nothing, he had not achieved
anything out of it.
He was on the contrary going down.
A hundred people would come
just to listen to him.
And to listen to Me, how many were there?
And nobody would question or anything.
Just accept, surrender to his life.
First shot, you have to pay
three hundred pounds. First shot.
And they would accept it
without any consideration,
without anything, just accept him.
He made them tell lies.
He told this, the chief director
of that academy,
to tell people that,
“You should say that
you are walking through walls.
You have to tell people”.
And he was so mesmerized,
he had to tell all sorts of things,
all kinds of lies.
How is it such phenomena are possible?
Hum?
Are such phenomena as walking
through walls really possible?
Is it possible to walk through walls?
But people believe it, my child.
But is it possible?
How can it be? How can it be?
What you got passes through is your mind.
And mind is carried away by some devil.
You see, all the separation of being,
fragmentation, you see,
anybody who is possessed can feel that.
But people don’t know about
the unknown things, no?
They don’t know. They don’t know.
This is the problem.
Because they don’t know
about unknown things,
they go on asking for something absurd.
And I don’t blame anyone of you,
because there were three very big
scientists from America,
who came to see Me.
And they said, “We want to,
we want to fly in the air”.
Just imagine! Coming to Me
of all the persons, you see.
I said, “Why do you want to fly in the air?
You are already flying.
You have gone to Moon”.
They said, “No, we want to learn that way,
the way of flying—what you call that,
astral travel”.
I said, “Astral travel,
why do you want to do it?”
I said, “If I tell you that it is done
through the possession of a spirit,
will you do it?”
“Yes”.
“But then you’ll lose all your freedom.
You’ll be a slave”.
“Yes, we don’t mind”.
I said, “But why? Such a great thing.
I mean, why do you think it is so great
to fly like that, invisibly?
Why, what is it that makes you feel that way?”
He said, “Americans are doing, the,
you know—the Russians are doing
experimentation on astral travelling
through parapsychology,
so we also want to do it”.
I said, “If they are going to Hell,
are you going to go to Hell with them?”
They said, “No. You must teach us”.
I said, “By the way, who told you
that I teach all this nonsense?”
They said, “There is one Patanjali
who told us”.
This Patanjali was a man
who came to me to get cured
of this disease he had.
He used to do astral movement and all that,
and his wife was so frightened,
because Indians know that
it is done through ‘bhoot’.
If bhoot comes into you,
as bhoot means a spirit comes to you,
you do that automatically.
So I said, “Look at this Patanjali.
Of all the persons whom I have cured
of this disease,
who worked for six months to get rid
of this disease from him,
he is sending people to Me for this?”
Then I asked Patanjali, I said,
“What do you mean by this?
Why did you send him over to Me?”
He said, “What to do?
They were after my life,
‘Tell me somebody who can
do astral travelling’”.
He said, “I used to do it,
but I got myself cured from Mataji”.
They said, “If she has cured you,
she can put that into us also”.
Just how foolish people are!
Just see, if I can cure cancer,
I can put cancer back to you?
People are very stupid and foolish.
This is all ego.
It makes a monkey out of human beings.
Just like that.
It is very simple.
You start seeing your ego
after Realization.
And you start laughing at it.
Before that you don’t know
whether you are ego or superego, you see.
But then you start seeing,
“Oh, this monkey, oh, better”.
Then you say,
“You, Mr. Ego, please keep quiet.
Now I see you clearly”.
How are you? Better now?
Much better.
Did you have something to eat?
No. Yes, I had some toast.
Hum?
I had some toast.
You have had.
Yes.
Give him a candle now.
You can come here if you want.
You can sit here.
Now you’d better have
your Realization established.
Come along. Sit. Sit like this.
What’s? Your name, you said is Ian.
Ian, you sit with both the feet like this.
Is he better?
Cool.
Are you all right? It’s good.
First thing happens is Left Vishuddhi
catches, because of mantras.
You see, it goes in here.
Such a vicious circle.
Like, it’s a—Vishuddhi, you see,
when you say mantras, this centre catches,
left side.
You see, which makes you feel guilty
all the time within yourself.
A kind of a guilt is built up, you see,
it makes you feel guilty for everything.
And especially that you are not doing
your course properly, and this and that,
you are doing it half-heartedly
and all that.
It goes on giving you ideas,
that you are not all right,
all those things.
And then when you come to Sahaja Yoga also,
what happens, this is caught up.
So even if I tell you that,
“Sir, you have done wrong
in going to, say, TM”,
again that comes up there, that guilt.
So it adds up to the guilt.
You see, it’s such a vicious circle,
you cannot break it.
If I tell you that,
then you’ll say,
“Oh, why, I shouldn’t have done it”.
Now, if I don’t tell you, you won’t realize.
If I tell you, that’s guilt.
It’s a vicious circle.
If you can break that vicious circle,
that you are not guilty,
you have done it in complete
misunderstanding and innocence.
If you say like that,
immediately it will be cleared out.
It’s better. Just do it like that.
Watch Me, it’s best thing.
Close your eyes. Close your eyes.
Be comfortable. Be comfortable.
Close your eyes.
And don’t feel guilty.
One thing is,
you are not guilty of anything.
Whatever you have done, it’s done.
You’ve done it in complete innocence.
Now don’t feel guilty, one thing.
All right?
Whatever I have said, forget it.
I have just told you to explain,
not to make you feel guilty.
If you start feeling guilty, that’s it.
Otherwise, it will go to ego or to guilt.
Very vicious, it’s a very bad
vicious circle now.
Better? Just put your hand towards him.
One hand, right hand towards him, yes.
It will work out.
Yes?
This is Callaghan. Callaghan and Jane
and Antonia. They would like to see you.
Hello! You could come,
I’m so very happy.
I just tried to pay attention to you.
May God bless you.
Now, can you sit on the ground? All right.
She’s all right. Hum?
What was the mantra you said, Paul?
I am.
Hum?
Then you say Mahakali’s mantra.
You got all right.
And, what’s the other one?
‘Sarva mantra siddhi’
‘Sarva mantra siddhi’.
Just try on this lady. Yes.
Noora, Noora?
Noora, come along, come along.
Bob.
Yes, hello, Bob. Come along.
Sit down, sit down. Sit down, sit down.
Noora, how did you sleep last night?
Very well, thank you.
Ha! Yes, both of you were very good,
she and you.
And all of you are going to be all right.
You slept well last night?
‘Sarva mantra siddhi’,
just see that mantra.
In the whole, all of you can say,
it will be a good idea.
Om twamewa sakshat
Shri sarva
mantra siddhi sakshat,
Shri Adi Shakti,
Shri Nirmala Devi, namo namaha.
All right?
Now Narakasura.
Now see, they know what mantra
they are saying,
what chakras you are catching,
what is working it out,
they are feeling it within themselves,
what is related.
This is knowledge.
Now, say ‘Narakasya’.
They know why, this gentleman,
TM fellow, was called as Narakasura.
He was the one who was slain before
by the Goddess.
So, if you say that, it was the Goddess
who killed Narakasura, it works.
That means he was Narakasura.
That’s the proof.
The proof of the pudding
is in the eating of it.
So simple as that. Now say that.
Put your both the feet straight.
Close your eyes. Close your eyes.
Say, ‘Narakasura’.
Om twamewa sakshat,
Narakasura mardini sakshat,
Shri Adi Shakti,
Shri Nirmala Devi, namo namaha.
Better?
Are you feeling the cool breeze now?
You see, when we called him
by that name, Narakasura,
you started feeling.
So, that means he was Narakasura.
Don’t think about it.
Don’t think, thinking is a curse.
All right?
Are you feeling the cool breeze? Good.
You slept well?
Yes, thank you.
Good.
She’s all right. What is it?
Are you better now?
Watch Me. Hand is better,
not shaking so much.
But shaking.
Is
he better?
Still there, Mother.
Still there.
Heart.
She’s all right. She’s better.
In both the hands
are you feeling the cool breeze or one?
Good. Now relax.
Close your eyes and relax.
Just think what you have got.
You just see what came above.
You’re all right.
In any way, you should not feel bad
or embarrassed about whatever
you have done.
That’s all. You are simple people.
Once you think like that,
then everything will be all right.
It’s all right now.
Better? Then you should believe.
It’s all right. That’s all.
Good. She’s very good.
There’s no rise or anything.
Ha! All right?
It again.
Can you come here? Sit down, please.
You can put the light down a little bit.
If it is more convenient.
Now. Take it nearer, high, in here.
Better?
How is it?
You say the mantra
‘sarva mantra siddhi’ once.
Om twamewa sakshat
Shri sarva mantra siddhi sakshat,
Shri Adi Shakti,
Shri Nirmala Devi, namo namaha.
More.
Om twamewa sakshat
Shri sarva mantra siddhi sakshat,
Shri Adi Shakti,
Shri Nirmala Devi, namo namaha.
Again.
Om twamewa sakshat
Shri sarva mantra siddhi sakshat,
Shri Adi Shakti,
Shri Nirmala Devi, namo namaha.
Hum. Again.
Om twamewa sakshat
Shri sarva mantra siddhi sakshat,
Shri Adi Shakti,
Shri Nirmala Devi, namo namaha.
Again.
Om twamewa sakshat
Shri sarva mantra siddhi sakshat,
Shri Adi Shakti,
Shri Nirmala Devi, namo namaha.
Hum.
Om twamewa sakshat
Shri sarva mantra siddhi sakshat,
Shri Adi Shakti,
Shri Nirmala Devi, namo namaha.
Again.
Om twamewa sakshat
Shri sarva mantra siddhi sakshat,
Shri Adi Shakti,
Shri Nirmala Devi, namo namaha.
Again.
Om twamewa sakshat
Shri sarva mantra siddhi sakshat,
Shri Adi Shakti,
Shri Nirmala Devi, namo namaha.
Hum. Again.
Om twamewa sakshat
Shri sarva mantra siddhi sakshat,
Shri Adi Shakti,
Shri Nirmala Devi, namo namaha.
Hum. Again.
Om twamewa sakshat
Shri sarva mantra siddhi sakshat,
Shri Adi Shakti,
Shri Nirmala Devi, namo namaha.
Now see if
it’s come up.
You say
Sahasrara mantra,
because
now at the Sahasrara,
it
is filled with. Better now.
Om twamewa sakshat
Shri Mahalakshmi,
Mahasaraswati, Mahakali, Trigunatmika,
Kundalini
sakshat, Shri Adi Shakti,
Shri Nirmala Devi, namo namaha.
Om twamewa sakshat Shri Kalki Sakshat,
Shri Adi
Shakti,
Shri Nirmala Devi, namo namaha.
Om twamewa sakshat Shri Kalki Sakshat,
Shri Sahasrara swamini,
moksha Pradahini Mataji,
Shri Nirmala Devi, namo namaha.
Ha. It cleared out.
Now say the Lord’s prayer.
Don’t close your eyes.
All of you should say.
Again
Are you all right, Bob?
I’d like to see. Come here.
You see, because Noora and,
what’s your name is there?
Maureen.
So, we have one very great Maureen
in London also.
So, Noora is a very, really,
I was surprised how she’s got this name.
It means life, you see. ‘nur’.
Is it better? Are you feeling
the cool breeze?
Just watch Me, thinking is still on.
On both the hands?
No, I feel cool on the right fingers.
Feeling on the left?
No.
All right put your right hand on your heart.
You see, these gurus,
they remove your attention from God,
from Spirit, to other things.
So, try to catch it into
your Spirit in your heart.
That’s the main thing, isn’t it?
All other things are useless.
What’s the use of giving the whole world
and not your own Spirit?
Just you desire that,
“I want to be my Spirit”.
Just desire that. That’s what you
should desire, “I want to be my Spirit”.
You also put your right hand on your heart.
On your heart. As here, yes.
Now, press it. Yes, that’s better.
Now, close your eyes and desire,
“I should be the Spirit”.
Is Chaya there? Chaya
Are you feeling any breeze in the left?
No.
All right, watch Me without thinking.
That’s it.
Hum.
Better. Much better now.
Is she better? Better? Void.
Better say Guru mantra that,
“You are my guru”.
Then only we’ll give it to him.
Now is he all right on the Void? Heart.
Catches heart so badly, I tell you,
all of you, you know,
still have the problem.
Are you feeling any cool breeze?
Not in the hand,
I feel just over my fingers.
Feeling better?
Just briefly.
There’s been some cool.
Yes. It’s good.
Just ask for forgiveness for going to TM,
just like that.
You say that,
“Forgive me for going TM”.
Because the heart is catching still,
all right?
If you say that, it will work out faster.
You see, heart is released. Say it again.
Heart. But don’t feel guilty. Just say
it.
All right.
I need to go and lie down and rest.
What’s it?
I need to go and lie down again.
All right.
It
comes from Center Heart as well.
Heart.
It comes from Left Heart
to the center as well.
Heart in the centre.
You have not to be frightened of anything.
No fear.
I’m not frightened.
No, not at all. Hum?
No, not even fear
about what you have done.
Nothing to have that, any fear.
Everything is curable.
Everything is perfect. All right?
Just think like that,
“Now I’m very powerful that way”.
All right?
Everything can be awakened.
This boy was sitting in a lunatic asylum.
So you can imagine
how much Sahaja Yoga can help. All right?
Yes.
Ha!
To clear it say that
Jagadamba. Jagadamba.
Om twamewa sakshat Shri Jagadamba sakshat,
Shri Adi Shakti, Shri Nirmala Devi,
namo namaha.